+++
title = "TIER2 Award: Establishing Reproducibility Networks in Horizon Europe “Widening Participation” countries - application deadline extended"
date = 2023-06-21
+++

As the GRN we would like to share the following call by TIER2 for the launch of new Reproducibility Networks across Europe:

TIER2, an international project funded by the European Union’s Horizon Europe research and innovation programme, aims to systematically investigate reproducibility across different research fields (social, life, and computer sciences), involving relevant stakeholder groups (researchers, publishers, and funders). 
To increase the trustworthiness of scientific work and to empower Reproducibility Networks (RNs), TIER2 is fostering the creation of three new RNs in Horizon Europe “Widening Participation” countries. Via an open call, consortia can apply for one of three awards of €5,000 each to fund an initial meeting to establish an RN in their country. The granted award money may be used for expenses directly related to the establishment meeting, including travel expenses, venue costs, setting up of a website, advertisement, technical setup, and consumables.
Selection will be based on the feasibility, scope, and sustainability of the proposal. **The application deadline has been extended from 17 July to 14 August. The TIER2 project looks forward to receive your submissions**

All further information about the award and the application process can be found [here](https://tier2-project.eu/open-call). 
Or reach out to [Friederike Kohrs](mailto:Friederike-elisabeth.kohrs@charite.de) in case of questions. 

TIER2 receives funding from the European Union's Horizon Europe research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 101094817.

