+++
title = "Terms of Reference: Annex 2: Membership"
+++

Annex 2. Membership: Joining and Leaving the GRN
------------------------------------------------

Members are accepted into the GRN by the *Steering Group*, which meets
at least four times per year. Acceptance of new members requires a
simple majority relative to all current members of the *Steering Group*
(e.g., at least six votes if the *Steering Group* has 10 members).
Individual persons cannot be direct members of the GRN. Individuals
interested in supporting the GRN's mission are encouraged to join or
even establish a *Reproducibility Initiative*, or to join the *Steering
Group*. Stakeholders (e.g., funders, publishers) are institutions that
fund, publish, or in other ways support research. They cannot be direct
members of the GRN, but are encouraged to join the *Stakeholder
Engagement Group* (comprising full and affiliate stakeholders). Members
of the Advisory Board are not direct members of the GRN. They are
appointed by the *Steering Group*.

All GRN members (*Reproducibility Initiatives*, *Research Institutions*,
*Academic Societies*, members of the *Steering Group*) can be excluded
from the GRN when they (a) engage in behavior that is contrary to the
aims of the GRN or (b) violate the terms of reference. Exclusion of
members requires a simple majority relative to all current members of
the *Steering Group* (analogous to the regulations for accepting new
members into the GRN). Members of the GRN can leave the GRN by
submitting an informal statement to the *Steering Group* via the
respective Speaker, Coordinator or Representative.

### How can Reproducibility Initiatives join the GRN?

*Reproducibility Initiatives* comprise at least two members and
designate a *Reproducibility Initiatives* *Speaker*. The
*Reproducibility Initiative Speaker* is the point of contact with GRN
and represents the *Reproducibility Initiative* with the consent of the
individual members.

*Reproducibility Initiatives* can join the GRN by submitting an informal
written membership application to the *Steering Group* in which they

-   identify the *Reproducibility Initiative Speaker* (name, affiliation, email address),

-   briefly outline the mission of the *Reproducibility Initiative*,

-   describe how they plan to promote the goals of the GRN

-   disclose the current number of active members, as well as

-   give a short overview of planned activities in the next 6 months (e.g., *Reproducibility Initiative* meetings planned, trainings planned, etc.).

To change the *Initiative Speaker*, the incumbent *Initiative* *Speaker*
informs the *Steering Group* of their successor (name, affiliation,
email address).

*Reproducibility Initiatives* can leave the GRN by submitting an
informal statement to the *Steering Group* via the *Initiative Speaker*.

### How can Research Institutions join the GRN?

Institutional members of the GRN are universities, sub-units of
universities (e.g., Fakultäten, Fachbereiche, Institute), research units
(e.g., Exzellenzcluster), extra-universitary research institutes (e.g.,
Max-Planck-, Helmholtz-, or Leibniz-Institutes), as well as other
non-commercial institutions that have research as their primary
objective, that are considered a part of the German scientific system.
While sub-units of research institutions are welcome as members if the
entire institution does not intend to join the GRN, the GRN will strive
to avoid multiple institutional memberships from the same institution.

The primary criterion for institutional membership is that the
institution (a) commits to the above-stated goals of the GRN (see
Mission Statement) and documents this in the form of a research
improvement strategy (see below), and (b) creates a senior academic role
with responsibility for promoting quality, robustness and transparency
of research, i.e., the *Academic Coordinator* of that Institution. The
*Academic Coordinator* is commissioned to foster the adoption of open
research practices in line with the goals of the GRN. The *Academic
Coordinator* should report to the appropriate governing body responsible
for research matters (e.g., the Vice President of Research for a
University, the Dean of Research for a Fakultät, or the Director of a
Max Planck Institute). Importantly, the position of the *Academic
Coordinator* should be structured in such a way as to enable the role
holder to provide critical input to the senior management team of the
Institution or Institution's unit on these issues, and therefore should
be independent from other responsibilities that may conflict with this.
The *Academic Coordinator* should have an appropriate level of support
from the Institution, which minimally should reflect in the amount of
time he or she can devote to this task. For a medium-sized University,
we expect that this role will require a minimum commitment of 1 day per
week (and equivalent exemption from other duties like teaching or
administration). For an extra-universitary research institution,
sub-units of universities (e.g., Fakultät) or research centers, we
propose a commitment of half a day per week.

We expect that *Research Institutions* seeking membership of GRN will
want (a) to develop capacity to deliver a research improvement strategy
(including the establishment of the *Academic Coordinator*, see above,
as well as planned collaboration and support of a *Reproducibility
Initiative*, if present) and (b) to work with the GRN to develop a
strategy for ensuring the sustainability of the Network in the medium-
and long-term (i.e., to contribute to building a community of
institutions focused on research improvement and to support the
development of the GRN). When applying for membership, the Institution
should document how it plans to achieve these goals in a sustainable
manner and describe the conditions under which the *Academic
Coordinator* can take up its role at the Institution. The GRN encourages
Institutions interested in joining the GRN to consult with members of
the *Steering Group*, if interested, for example to discuss possible
ways of working towards the GRN's goals. Upon acceptance, the
Institution (represented by its *Academic Coordinator*) and the
*Steering Group* of the GRN will jointly develop a memorandum of
understanding (based on the application documents), which shall be
signed by the Institution's *Academic Coordinator*, the responsible
senior manager of that institution (e.g., the Vice President for
Research), and a representative of the *Steering Group*. This memorandum
of understanding shall be renewed every five years.

### How can Academic Societies join the GRN?

*Academic Societies* are associations devoted to the advancement of
science in their respective disciplines. When interested in joining the
GRN, these societies should either already have started activities that
support the improvement of quality, robustness and transparency of
research or document a serious interest in starting this process.
Interested societies should name one member, preferentially either a
member of its steering committee or a member who directly reports to the
*Steering Group*, as a point of contact for the GRN (the *Academic
Society Coordinator for Research Improvement*). The society should apply
for membership by describing their current strategy for improving
research reproducibility, and how it plans to support the aims of the
GRN. Upon acceptance, the *Academic Society* (represented by its Contact
Person) and the *Steering Group* of the GRN will jointly develop a
memorandum of understanding (based on the application documents), which
shall be signed by the *Academic Society Coordinator for Research
Improvement*, the Society's president or her/his representative, and a
representative of the *Steering Group*. This memorandum of understanding
shall be renewed every five years.

### How can Stakeholders join the Engagement Group of the GRN?

Stakeholders cannot become direct members of the GRN, but interact with
the GRN via the *Stakeholder Engagement Group* (see Annex 6 for more
details). The GRN *Steering Group* will actively approach potential
Stakeholders, but Stakeholders interested in joining the *Stakeholder
Engagement Group* are also encouraged to actively approach the GRN
*Steering Group*. The Stakeholder should make explicit how they will
support the GRN (financially and/or in kind; see Annex 6), appoint a
Contact Person for GRN, and jointly with the GRN's *Steering Group*
develop a memorandum of understanding documenting the Stakeholder's
support for the GRN. This memorandum shall be signed by the
Stakeholder's Contact Person, if necessary an authorized member of the
Stakeholder's management team, and a representative of the Steering
Group, and shall be renewed every five years.
