+++
title = "Terms of Reference"
+++

# Terms of Reference

Version 0.1, 2020-02-15

<div class="alert alert-warning" role="alert">
  <strong>This is the current state of our Terms of Reference, which we consider a living document.</strong> Please be aware that it is subject to changes as our organization evolves.
</div>

## Contents

* [1. Organization](./1-organization/)
* Annex
  * [1. Definition of Terms](./annex/1-definititions/)
  * [2. Membership](./annex/2-membership/)
  * [3-8. Role Descriptions](./annex/3-roles/)

----

Präambel
--------

Das "Deutsche Reproduzierbarkeitsnetzwerk" (GRN) ist eine
disziplinübergreifende Initiative mit dem Ziel, die
Vertrauenswürdigkeit und Transparenz der wissenschaftlichen Forschung zu
erhöhen, indem sie Faktoren untersucht und fördert, die zu einer
robusteren Forschung beitragen. Wir fördern Ausbildungsaktivitäten und
vermitteln bewährte Praktiken der Methodenkompetenz, praktizieren und
unterstützen metawissenschaftliche Forschung und arbeiten mit
Interessenvertreterinnen und -vertretern zusammen, um die Beteiligung,
Umsetzung und Koordination auf mehreren Ebenen zu gewährleisten. Das GRN
strebt entsprechend Kooperationen mit Forschern und Forscherinnen,
Institutionen und anderen Interessengruppen (z.B. Forschungsförderer,
Verlage und wissenschaftliche Gesellschaften) an.
Das GRN ist nach dem Vorbild seines britischen Pendants aufgebaut, dem UK
Reproducibility Network. Es konzentriert sich in erster Linie auf die
deutsche Forschungslandschaft, ist aber gleichzeitig Teil eines
internationalen Netzwerks von Verbänden, die gemeinsam an der
Verbesserung der Forschungsqualität und Reproduzierbarkeit arbeiten. Zum
Zwecke der Vernetzung mit europäischen Initiativen werden die folgenden
Statuten (\"Terms of Reference\") in englischer Sprache formuliert.

Vision
------

To promote quality, robustness and transparency of scientific research
in Germany.

Mission Statement
-----------------

The German Reproducibility Network (GRN) is a cross-disciplinary
consortium that aims at increasing trustworthiness and transparency of
scientific research by investigating and encouraging the factors that
contribute to robust research. We promote training activities and
disseminate best practices, conduct and support meta-scientific
research, and work with stakeholders to ensure coordination of efforts.
GRN's activities span multiple levels, including researchers,
institutions and other stakeholders (e.g., funders, publishers, and
Academic Societies).

GRN is modelled after its UK counterpart, the UK Reproducibility
Network. It focuses primarily on the German research landscape, but is
at the same time part of an international network of associations
working together to improve research quality and reproducibility. For
the purpose of networking with European initiatives, the following
statutes (\"Terms of Reference\") are formulated in English.

Purpose
-------

GRN aims to ensure that scientists, research institutions, and
scientific organizations in Germany produce robust and rigorous
research. Reproducibility implies several closely related aspects of
research, such as research transparency, research integrity and
scientific openness. Annex 1 lists various terms and definitions that
are widely used to describe this as well as related issues that are
often used interchangeably, and that jointly define the goals of GRN's
work. We consider transparency to be a necessary criterion for assessing
quality and require a critical examination of evidence. Therefore,
methodological competence is a central component of GRN.